# How can we combat this issue

Information is easily secured, just jumble it up so that no one can read it - easy. The problem with this is that it must be reversible in order to understand what is meant. Making it reversible however, will allow anyone to decipher it. Instead, an entire field of mathematics exists that is devoted to developing algorithms that can reversibly scramble information so that it is only undoable by those who know how it was originally scrambled. While it is easy to protect information, it is not so easy to conceal personal data such as your shopping history or your contact list from collectors as they will find any way to continue collecting.

Using airline companies as an example, they store cookies (small pieces of information) on your computer to calculate your flight path, flight details, destination, departure times and everything related. They then bias the prices in order to make the most money out of you^[7]^. In addition to this, advertising companies such as Google, Facebook and YouTube will show advertisement related to your search and engagement histories (information that you react to such as posters, images, ads or articles). This is designed to give you an overview over the range of prices versus quality. This is then used to lure you into buying commercial flights that aren't that great but still charge top dollar.

While targeted advertising is great for understanding a product range, it is exploited by large companies because of how much information is behind them. Google even goes to the lengths of recording what you're saying when you have its Chrome browser installed on your system to further fuel its ad campaign. This means that Google not only knows everything you're interested in, but Google also knows who your friends are, where you live, what you look like and what you sound like, *and* they *never* forget. A great way to prevent this is to use Open Source software meaning its source code is available for anyone to inspect and play around with. This provides transparency in the software and hence a layer of trust.

Generally, major companies' largest projects won't be open source but alternatives will almost certainly exist that are. For example, Google's Chrome browser is proprietary software but alternatives such as Mozilla Firefox are open source. Another alternative to protect yourself is to use sensor scrambling software. These act like middleware to your computers sensors such as the camera, microphones and GPS by turning the output data from the sensors into gibberish and ensure it cannot be accessed unless the user has granted permission. Generally, protecting yourself is as easy as not using the biggest company available. The Google search engine has countless alternatives whose mission it is to provide privacy to you. One such search engine is DuckDuckGo - my personal choice.
