# Rationale

The current era has been coined the Information Age because of the shocking amounts of data that are being passed around, collected or generated. With volumes of this scale, not all of it can be properly managed. This is where privacy issues become relevant. As data is being collected from every internet user around the clock, a picture or profile can be drawn to represent that person. Generally, any data that can be found will be recorded. Software such as the Google Search Engine or YouTube will customise content specifically to match this user's interests, allowing these platforms to feed information that show exactly what the user is looking for. The issue with this is that information can be customised and show biased and less reliable information, hence an incomplete overview of the subject. In addition to this, personal details can be used to recognise patterns and fake profiles can be established in this image, resulting in potential for identity theft and other forms of cybercrimes.

I deal with information systems frequently leaving me vulnerable to such data mines. Since I deal with such large amounts of data, I need to know how to protect myself and my users against it. My purpose then is to build software so that my users' privacy is respected. I learned privacy's importance first-hand when I created a Google account. Without me having to specify, Google immediately knew my age, location and gender. Being stunned, I entered bogus information. A few weeks later, I came across my Account preferences and saw that Google had corrected this information.

I chose to use a website to present this issue as it would allow me to embed more realistic examples to further demonstrate this issue's scope. I also had it ready for me to quite literally, Copy and Paste the sections of my response into it. I originally wrote this website template to be an informational website targeted at anyone researching companies, products or people. The final website will be targeted at reckless internet users to attempt to persuade behavioural change as everyone should know about this.

Throughout the website, I used informal language to make it feel more like a conversation and more engaging. I used similes and metaphors to make the topic more understandable to someone who may not be familiar with privacy issues. There is also persuasive language scattered throughout the website to convince readers to change their behaviours.

Finally, in The Secret Life of Bees, T. Ray, Lily's father, deliberately lies to Lily about her mother going away and leaving Lily behind to keep her under control and intimidate her into staying at home. This is an example of information being purposefully misused for T. Ray's gain. While not the moral of the story, it is evident that information can easily be misused in this way. Another demonstration of information's power is the reason Lily runs away from home - in search of her mother. She wants to know about her; she seeks information. If Information is desirable it can be monetised, and hence abused.
