# Why is it an issue at all

Internet users have huge amounts of data that is considered "private" without them being explicitly aware of its presence. This makes it easy to find patterns and compile hints about any person or company. Not only does this allow for identity theft and numerous other cybercrimes but it also puts other connections or contacts at risk. Not only can this cause crimes, but highly customised information can lead to skewed mindsets, change of perspective even convince people to do things they normally wouldn't. There have been countless reports of people fighting for issues because other people on the internet are and they don't truly follow these issues, yet are in support because the only thing the internet seems to contain is content customised to show these biased views. 

There was a teenaged girl who was a frequent shopper at Target. She was such a frequent shopper that she would continue to receive coupons and vouchers for Target stores. Eventually her father noticed that she started receiving coupons for baby clothes and baby care items. Her outraged father filed official complaints against the company because they were encouraging her daughter to get pregnant. Later that day, he returned to the store to apologise as he and his daughter had a conversation and it was revealed that she was indeed pregnant. The thing to note here is that the company Target knew a teenaged girl was pregnant before her own father did, just by watching her shopping history. This demonstrates how easily information is obtainable by tracking patterns.
